How to set up your Raspberry Pi with Raspbian

What you need:
-Micro SD Card with a minimum capacity of 8GB
-Display compatible with HDMI (TV, Monitor)
-Keyboard
-Mouse
-HDMI Cable
-Power Supply
-Computer compatible with SD Card

Installing NOOBS:
1. Download NOOBS onto your computer from this link: https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/
2. Extract the downloaded ZIP file
3. Copy the extracted files and directories to the Micro SD Card
4. Eject Micro SD Card from computer and insert it on the SD Card Reader on the Raspberry Pi

Installing Raspbian:
1. Connect a mouse, keyboard, display (using the HDMI cable), and power supply to the Raspberry Pi
2. It will take a while to boot up NOOBS, so be patient
3. Once the installation screen pops up, select the preferred language and the keyboard layout at the bottom of the screen
4. Check the box on the left for Raspbian [RECOMMENDED]
5. Click install and this process will automatically restart after completion
6. Congratulations, you have Raspbian on your Raspberry Pi!

Wi-Fi Configuration:
1. Click the network icon on the top right section of the menu bar
2. Turn on Wi-Fi if not on and select Wi-Fi network
3. Enter password (if any) and click OK

Bluetooth Configuration:
1. Click the bluetooth icon the top right section of the menu bar
2. Turn on Bluetooth if not on and click Add Device
3. Select device to be paired and follow the directions given on screen

(Optional)
Get IP Address of Raspberry Pi using mouse, keyboard, and display:
1. Open Terminal on your Raspberry Pi and type the following command
	hostname -I
2. This should print out your Raspberry Pi's IP Address and make sure to write this somewhere as you will need it to SSH into the Pi

Remote Access to Raspberry Pi using SSH (Mac OS X only):
1. Type the following command
	sudo raspi-config
2. Go to Interfacing Options -> SSH and Enable SSH 
3. Reboot the Raspberry Pi
4. On your computer, you can SSH into the Raspberry Pi by typing in the following command on Terminal
	ssh pi@(insert IP address here)
5. Congrats! You now have control over the Pi's bash Terminal from your computer

Remote Access to Rapsberry Pi using VNC (Mac OS X only):
1. On your Raspberry Pi, type the following commands on Terminal:
	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt-get install realvnc-vnc server realvnc-vnc-viewer